---
layout: post
title:  "Lubuntu PC configuration on a Windows domain"
date:   2016-07-11 00:00:00
categories: tech
---

Anyone who works with small business knows that the people involved often have to wear different hats as there simply aren't the resources to employ specialists for each area. So it is for me that I find myself doing a lot of devops stuff that I would otherwise have passed over to the network team in the days when I was working for a large blue chip company. So it was recently that I was tasked with setting up some new machines on a Windows network - fairly straightforward and nothing that needs documenting except that I had some old machines I wanted to use and consequently only old versions of Windows would do the job. I had the idea of using Lubuntu because the hardware requirements are very low and after a bit of messing about I managed to get things running. This is what I did ...

The first task was to install Lubuntu intself. I'm not going to document that process as it's very easy - simply download the iso from the Lubuntu website [here](lubuntu.net) and either burn it to disk or create an installable USB drive and then follow the installation wizard.

Then install the likewise open5 package which is needed for authenticaion with Active Directory.


Fire up a browser (Firefox is installed by default) and browse [here](http://download1.beyondtrust.com/Technical-Support/Downloads/PowerBroker-Identity-Services-Open-Edition/?Pass=True) and download the appropriate version. For this demonstration I'm using Lubuntu 64 bit version and the correct Debian package is [here](http://download.beyondtrust.com/PBISO/8.3/pbis-open-8.3.0.3287.linux.x86_64.deb.sh).

(All of this and the following installation details can be found [here](https://community.spiceworks.com/how_to/80336-join-ubuntu-14-04lts-to-a-windows-domain-using-pbis-open).)

Open a terminal when the file is downloaded and browse to the Downloads directory.

cd ~/Downloads

Assign execute permissions to the package

sudo chmod +x pbis-open-8.0.1.2029.linux.x86_64.deb.sh

Install the package

sudo ./pbis-open-8.0.1.2029.linux.x86_64.deb.sh

Join the domain with a Windows user - I create a user called developer for devops. And run the other configuration commands.

sudo domainjoin-cli join --disable ssh CDL.local deployer
sudo /opt/pbis/bin/config UserDomainPrefix $domain 
sudo /opt/pbis/bin/config AssumeDefaultDomain true 
sudo /opt/pbis/bin/config LoginShellTemplate /bin/bash 
sudo /opt/pbis/bin/config HomeDirTemplate %H/%U 


Run the following if you wish the users to belong to particular group. I decided to add users to a group called Linux because for network access you need to have the password in a credentials file and I thought it would be good practice to keep an eye on who these users are that have passwords exposed in a text file (albeit in their home folder).

sudo /opt/pbis/bin/config RequireMembershipOf "CDL.local\\Linux"



Add the main user for the machine to the suoders

sudo usermod -a -G sudo CDL\\production3 (not CDL.local)

For network access

sudo mkdir /media/apps

Get deployer id

id -u deployer


Get domain users id

getent group domain^users
492306945

sudo vim /home/deployer/.smbcredentials
username=deployer
password=[password]
domain=CDL

sudo vim /etc/fstab

//192.168.101.1/Apps /media/apps cifs credentials=/home/deployer/.smbcredentials,uid=492309155,gid=492306945,file_mode=0660,dir_mode=0770,iocharset=utf8,sec=ntlm 0 0

!wq

sudo mount -a

You will need to get the uid and the gid for the user. Do this by typing 'id' in the terminal then write down the values.

uid 492309161
uid 492309155


sudo apt-get install cifs-utils